Now the first command we want to explore is to find the ip address of our computer.
To find the IP of any computer type ipconfig in the command prompt for the window.
If you are using mac os or linux type ifconfig.


After typing the command press enter.You will see lots of details here.

If you scroll a little bit down you will see information like wireless Lan adapter Wi-fi.
This gives us information about your connection.


First is the IPv4 address, which is your ip address in mycase it is 192.68.1.102 The ip address is assigned by your
router/dongle.If you connect to a different wifi your ip address will also change.

The next thing we are interested in is the default Gateway.This is the ip address of your wifi router/ dongle.
Which in my case is 192.168.1.1.

Default gateway is the first step in connecting your computer with the internet.
We will see the practical use of the default gateway when we will build a simulation.

----------------

As we discussed in the last class, the internet is a collection of billions of computers connected with each
other.So our website, let's say www.amazon.com is also stored on a computer.

But how do we find the website?

Like your computer has an ip address, websites are also assigned an IP address. With help of this IP address we
can reach that website and access the data.But how can we find the IP address of a website.
To do that we can use a command.This command is called Nslookup to use this command type it in the cmd and after
that add the name of the website such as 
\
nslookup www.amazon.com

\
-------------------------

We got the IP but to check that we can connect with this or not?

we are going to use the ping command to 

ping amazon.com or ping 104.115.93.185

---------------------------
We can clear the cmd by using the cls command.

To run the ping command type ping 104.115.93.185 and press enter.
This will send the 4 data packets to amazon.com and then receive the 4 packets. This will also give us information
about the latency of the network. It shows how much time it took to receive each packet in milliseconds.
Lower this number faster is the connection
--------------------------------

Great, we learnt about how to find the IP address of the website and ping to check whether we can connect with
the website or not.


